README.md, before:

# urlshort: URL mapping service

Takes the URL GET param h (for hash)  
and stores the URL under this key into a database.

The key can then be used to retrieve the URL  
from the database.
Or to forward/redirect to the URL.

## Storage Engines

The filesystem storage is from someone else.
The implementation is counting all existing files on each insert.
Dont use it.

The BoltDB storage is not fully implemented.
BoltDB is supposed to be slightly better at retrieval than at insert.

The LevelDB storage is workable and yields some encouraging benchmark results.

## Example

### Store/Save

    localhost:8084/enc?url=https://www.wikipedia.org?h=wik1
    localhost:8084/enc?url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_San_Patricio?h=wik2

### Check all

    http://localhost:8084/dump

### Check one

    http://localhost:8084/dec/wik1

### Call to redirect

    http://localhost:8084/r/wik1
    http://localhost:8084/r/wik2

## Benchmark LevelDB

8 microseconds per saving operation -  
 125.000 inserts per second.

5 microseconds per loading operation -  
 200.000 loads per second.

## Database considerations

Possible database backends - LevelDB vs BoldDB

LevelDB and its derivatives (RocksDB, HyperLevelDB) underlying structure is a log-structured merge-tree (LSM tree).  
 An LSM tree optimizes random writes by using a write ahead log and multi-tiered, sorted files called SSTables.  
 Bolt uses a B+tree internally and only a single file.

https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt

https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb

### Other

https://github.com/tidwall/buntdb based on https://github.com/tidwall/btree

https://github.com/dgraph-io/badger

Commit message:

file store deleted - clean shutdown of server and levelDB added

README.md, after:

# urlshort: URL mapping service

Takes the URL GET param h (for hash)  
and stores the URL under this key into a database.

The key can then be used to retrieve the URL  
from the database.
Or to forward/redirect to the URL.

## Storage Engines

The LevelDB storage is workable and yields some encouraging benchmark results.  
Since wikipedia says, LevelDB is susceptible to corruption.  
Maybe golang implementation of LevelDB fares better? Tell me, if you know.  
Until then, we write all inserts into a parallel logfile.  
We also take care cleanly close LevelDB after HTTP server crash or regular application termination.

The BoltDB storage is not fully implemented.  
BoltDB is supposed to be slightly better at retrieval than at insert.  
You have to implement

    Save(string) (string, error)
    Load(string) (string, error)
    Dump(int, int) (string, error)

in order to use BoltDB.

## Example

### Store/Save

    localhost:8084/enc?url=https://www.wikipedia.org?h=wik1
    localhost:8084/enc?url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_San_Patricio?h=wik2

### Check all

    http://localhost:8084/dump

### Check one

    http://localhost:8084/dec/wik1

### Call to redirect

    http://localhost:8084/r/wik1
    http://localhost:8084/r/wik2

## Benchmark LevelDB

8 microseconds per saving operation -  
 125.000 inserts per second.
 
However, our safety insert logs slows things down.


5 microseconds per loading operation -  
 200.000 loads per second.


## Database considerations

Possible database backends - LevelDB vs BoldDB

LevelDB and its derivatives (RocksDB, HyperLevelDB) underlying structure is a log-structured merge-tree (LSM tree).  
 An LSM tree optimizes random writes by using a write ahead log and multi-tiered, sorted files called SSTables.  
 Bolt uses a B+tree internally and only a single file.

https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt

https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb

### Other

https://github.com/tidwall/buntdb based on https://github.com/tidwall/btree

https://github.com/dgraph-io/badger
